All right.
So that's it for strings in this section.
We still have a lot to talk about with strings but we'll get to that later in the course.
There's one last video here has to do with converting data types until we move on to our little project
at the end of the section.
So it's not going to be anything amazing or particularly impressive but these projects will grow in
scale complexity and hopefully impressiveness coolness out and I don't know.
Hopefully they get a little more exciting as we go.
But right now we just don't have enough tools to actually build anything.
We really just have variables.
And then I'm going to show you in the next video how to get user input how to ask or prompt for or data.
But for now we need to talk about converting data types.
So this will be quick.
The idea you know we've talked about different data types integers and floats.
Take an integer and turn it into a float How do take a float and turn it into an integer.
Or let's say you have a string of the number 8 inside double quotes.
What if I want to turn that into the number 8 or vice versa.
Fortunately it's pretty straightforward and we've actually seen data type conversion already happen
when we talked about interpellation with strings or formatting where we had a number like that guess
example which I think was also the number 8 which was an int.
But when we put it inside the string it was converted into the string version of 8.
So we've already seen it happen kind of behind the scenes but we can do it explicitly by saying hey
make this thing a string or make this a float and it looks like this.
You use the name of the builtin type as a function which you know this is sort of some language that
needs to be here because it needs to be accurate.
But also we haven't talked about things like functions yet but it looks like this.
Here's an example of a decimal twelve point five six blah blah blah save to a variable called decimal.
Now we can use this int function and in parentheses.
So with functions we use parentheses just like we've done with print.
We pass in a variable.
In this case this decimal and then it converts that to an int and the way that it does that is just
by chopping off everything after the decimal just giving us 12 so it doesn't round to be clear.
That can be confusing.
It just chops off a decimal and if we look at integer it would be equal to 12.
So we can also do things like this even though we haven't talked about lists yet.
I just wanted to put this here.
Do you have a list of three numbers one two three.
Turn it into a string using s t r the function and it puts the whole thing in quotes and it is a string
at that point.
OK so let's go to my terminal.
Say I have a number and we'll just call it Nahm and set it equal to 12.
Now let's do.
Type of Naam which should be.
And let's now say Gnome equals float of no.
So let's look at what type Gnome is after that.
And you can see it's now been turned into a float.
And in fact if we look at Gnome itself it now has point zero.
So I don't think you would ever really need to do this but as an example when we do things like one
divided by three these are both integers.
They are turned into floats for the division to happen and that happens implicitly.
But really all that matters here is that we see this float which is a function.
In this case with the parentheses we also could do the same thing like let's do it of ninety nine point
four four four four or five or three and cuts off everything afterwards.
And just to prove to you that ninety nine point nine nine it just gives us 99.
So it does not round.
So the last thing I'll show you is string which is as TR.
However I discovered this just a couple of minutes ago as a first try to record the video.
I don't know if you recall it much earlier.
I was using a variable called TR which is actually not a good idea on my part.
Here we go as TR.
It works just fine.
But this is actually a reserved thing in Python because I should be able to do string of eight and get
eight like this.
But what I actually did is I overwrote the built in string as TR function in Python.
Up here I already lost it.
But you saw it hopefully as TR where I had defined as TR equals something.
So it basically overwrote it and erased the initial SDR.
So it's something I've never done before.
So we can just close out and run Python 3 again.
And now I should be able to do as tr of 8 and I get 8 in quote.
Anyway just another teachable moment I guess it is just a pretty way to say a mistake.
But I do think there is some value in it.
So if you tried to you could do something like this you know it equals I am a number like this.
And now it is just a variable.
So if I try and do end of nine point four I get an error.
So I do the same thing with as TR earlier.
So moral of the story lesson here is don't make variables named as TR or ints or prints or anything
that is a thing in Python which you'll learn more about what those are as we go on.
Anyway that's all there is to explicitly converting things.
Remember that when we use f strings things are implicitly under the behind the scenes converted to strings
or if we can do it explicitly ourselves.